commands:   gwta studio
            gwta regen-dictionary  ()
            gwta regen-gosudoc  (build/gosudoc)
            gwab regen-wsi-local  (build wsdl)

carlmeba/Martes2018

UI: ABContactDetailsCompanyDV (a good usage example of UI elements)

accounts: aapplegate - gw
          su - gw

The insurance suite:

    Policy: Create, modify, renew, and cancel policies
    Billing: Bill policy holders for policies, and pay commissions for policies to producers
    Claim: Process claims to provide payments to claimants when covered losses occur

For each app, there is an specific functionality:

    Claims: Financials, Group Access, Claim maturity, Integration mechanism.
    Policy: Product model, job flow, role assignment, policy validation.
    Billing: Billing plan, Payment plan, Charge Pattern, Deling Workflow. 


Guidewire supports the following application servers: WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss EAP
Jetty (for development only)

Guidewire supports the following RDBMs: Oracle Enterprise, Microsoft SQL Server, H2 for development only

3 tiers:
    data tier: configured by "entities"
    app tier: configured by gosu
    ui: PCFs configure presentation tier


--- Data models ---


Data model entity: is an abstract definition of a group of business objects used by the application.
a data model store the data in database table named after the entity.
    
    Exceptions are: Entities that share the columns in an entity table such as subtype entity
    Virtual, non-persistent entities do not save data to the database.
 
    They consist on entities, entity fields (Data, Foreign key, Array key, Type key), data fields (single value that does not
    reference another object or table: String, datetime, bit, integer),  typelists,  and typekeys.

- Fields of supertype entities are inherited by subtype entities

- Supertype parent table stores all instances of itself AND of subtype data

    Contains parent fields and all subtype fields
    Irrelevant fields are null for specific subtypes
    Subtype column identifies subtype

Types:

Foreign key stores a reference to a related object in the data model
Array key fields: stores references to a set of related objects in the data model. They are not store in the database and
 they are populated at runtime by queries 
Typelist and typekey: a type key references a value in a type list. A type list is a predefiend list of values.

Referencing:

    fields:                                 object.field
    field on related object:                object.foreignKey.field
    array:                                  object.array
    referencing field at subtype level:     (supertype as subtype).field


-- Extending entities ---


Application entities are specific to application

    Claim
    Policy
    Producer

Platform entities are common to all Guidewire applications

    Activity
    User

Entities are in xml files (ETI as entities, ETX as entity extensions and EIX as internal entity extensions). 
These files are located in config\extensions\entity (for ETI and ETX files) and config\medatada\entity (for 
ETI and EIX).

NOTES: extensions are groupings ?. Internal extensions are written with a suffix:  extension_Ext. Internals dont.

When you edit an extension, you need to re deploy it. Yo can do that by issuing: gwta dev-stop and gwta dev-start or restarting
the execution in intellij.

You can't make extensions for entities through the GUI for ETI and ETX files. You need to edit them directly.


--- Creating entities ---


    ETI files can be created by customers.
    ETI and EIX files are application exclusive.
    ETI FILES are platform exclusive.

Arrays: Collection of pointers to instances of some other entity that is maintained by code during runtime. Arrays requires a reverse foreign key
If entity A has array of entity B, then entity B must have a foreign key pointing to entity A.

Entity names: Useful for displaying names in user interface. Entity names exist for many base and application entities.
arrays.

Foreign key: its a pointer to a single instance of some other entity. And is maintained by a foreign key column in the database table.

One to one: defines a single-valued association to another entity that has a one-to-one cardinality. Provides a reverse pointer to an 
entity that is pointing at the <onetoone> entity through a foreign key. ¿How do i achieve this?

One to many: You need to create a foreign key in the many relationship "table", and an array in the "one" relationship table.

Many to many: It requires an entity of type versionable that have 2 or more non-nullable foreign keys, and an unique index. To access 
the many-to-many relationship, add an array to one or both entities in the relationship ?.

circular relationships: a link between one entity to another or to self. Ensures the safe ordering of data insertion and deletion 
in cases where cyclic references prevent safe ordering ?.

delegates: a virtual entity consisting of database fields, or methods, or both that can be reused by multiple entities. It Bundles 
together data and functionality that is needed by multiple unrelated entities. 


--- subtypes ---


A subtype is an entity that is a child to a supertype entity and inherits all fields from the supertype.

A subtype is read from the xml as <subtype> or <extension>. In the GUI you need to add a subtype element. In the details, you need
to specify 

A subtype is stored as an id in a column of the database. That id references a table of typelists (e.g. AB_person, and ABTL_person). 
Since a entry in the database can be subtyped from different supertypes, one column that does not belong to this row supertype, is set
to null. 

In the UI, you may visualize this tree by looking at the supertype. But, do remember that the supertype wont inherit its subtype
entity fields (the ui rather shows what fields can you access from the supertype entity). The subtype entities are not displayed
with his inherited fields (wtf).

You are unable to inherit from multiple supertypes, just one at a time (as it doesn't make sense).

creating subtype extensions:  as usual, you may click the entity folder, or you may right click the entity (the 
entity must be a subtype and an extension). You can't do it through the GUI if you are under the folder extensions/entity/ folder, you 
must edit the xml directly. You must name the new entity with a "*_Ext" posfix.


--- typelist ---


A typelist is a list of defined values. Defined values often used to constrain user input. When rendered in UI, it typically
appears as dropdown list. 

- located under the Metadata (tti and tix extensions) and Extensions (tti and ttx extensions) Typelist folder. The metadata 
holds read only files, and the extensions folder holds custom and editable files.

A typelist comes in 3 forms

Internal: read only, cannot be modified or extended and is used for internal base app logic
Extendable: used in the base application and it can be modified as a typelist or typelist extensions
Custom: created as a part of a custom configuration. 
virtual typelist: a typelist that is not exposed and hence not available in a "physical" file

- As usual, if you are going to extend a typelist, you must name its typecodes with the "*_Ext" posfix.

When you are defining a type code, you encounter 3 primary fields: code, name and desc. code behaves like
an internal unique id, "name" is what is displayed to the user interface and "desc" is what the data dictionary
displays. 

defining typekey fields: you need to add a "typekey" element to an entity or entity extension (after you have created the typelist).

you may additionally add:
    typefilter: a new column that groups codes in this typelist based on a criteria.
    category: a new column that groups a child list on this type list. These are used to restrict or filter dependent 
              drop-down lists.

creating typelist extensions: you can create typelist extensions if you are under the extensions folder. You may right
click the typelist metadatafolder or any typelist to create a new extension.


---  UI Architecture --- 


The PCF (Page Configuration File) object model is a proprietary application framework used to create all Guidewire 
end-user interfaces. There are 2 categories: widgets (dispalyable elements) and locations (navigable places). PCFs 
are XMLs. They may also: Define child containers, Reference other containers, Include atomic widgets

For widgets, we have: 

    Atomic widget: an atomic piece of the user interface that displays individual data values or executes individual actions
                   these are inputs, cells and buttons.
    Container widget: collection of atomic widgets and other container widgets.
                      these are: Screen, Input set, Card View Pael, Detail View Panel, List Detail Panel, List View Panel
    Screen: Every atomic widget, primary view, and secondary view is contained (directly or indirectly) in a screen. A
            Screen forms the bridge between what the application displays and how users work and navigate in the application.
    Primary view: a single object (and its related data) or set of objects.
    Secondary view: a secondary view organizes primary views, its a collection of primary views.


Detail view panel: allows the user to view or create a record.
list view panel: allows the user to view information about multiple records at the same time.
Input sets: ?

widgets.png shows the hierarchy between these elements.

As for locations, we have

    Location Groups
    Pages
    Wizard
    Popup
    Worksheet
    Forward
    Exit Point

These elements are all inside the screen box (Widgets.png). A location references a specific screen.

The overall hierarchy is reviwed at "PCF hierarchy.png". Every Container Widget and Location element can be
a parent element in the PCF element.

You can: debug the UI by pressing ALT + SHIFT + I in you web browser. Reload PCFs by pressing ALT + SHIFT + L.
take out the widget inspector by pressing ALT + SHIFT + W. Open the canvas by pressing ALT + SHIFT + E

PCF files are under the Config/Page Configuration/pcf folder. PCF file suffix examples:

    DV – detail view panel
    LV – list view panel
    InputSet – input set
    CV – card view panel
    LDV – list detail panel
    Screen – screen
    LG – location group
    Wizard – wizard

You can view and edit page configuration files (PCF) on this path: /config/web/pcf. You are provided with 
PCF canvas, a toolbox tab, an structure tab, and a properties window.

following these steps you will reaseure that everything you did is ok (in other words, deploying a PCF change): 

    build -> make project (compiles modified files).
    ALT + SHIFT + L





file:///C:/Guidewire/ContactManagerTrainingApp/modules/configuration/gsrc/sura/ab/wsc